Create a markdown page (optionally, you may choose to upload a PDF), which will be your group's project proposal. Make sure to include the following:

- An introduction of your research question
- An explanation of why it is important to you, why it matters to others, and what is at stake
- A description of the spatial scope (e.g. Boyle Heights or Hong Kong), and why space and/or time matters for your project
- A preliminary but definitive description of data sources (at least two) that you will use
- Include datasource with links
- A scope that explains the intended analysis and resulting visualizations for your project
- A concluding paragraph of what insights you expect to gain from your research

## Research Question
This past year has proven incredibly difficult and unrehearsed, as we continue this drawn-out battle against the COVID-19 pandemic. Since March of 2020, the US has implemented numerous legislations and guidelines in an attempt to mitigate the spread of the virus. Not only were our personal lives impacted by these rapid changes (e.g., enforced masks, social distancing, limited gatherings) but we also saw dramatic changes in the workforce: shuttered down offices, massive layoffs, and dampened outlook on the economy. And while certain businesses, namely large corporations, have managed to stay afloat through remote work or company mandated testing, small entrepreneurs and business owners do not have this flexibility.

As LA residents who see the effects of the pandemic and recession on the economy, we propose the following research questions: 
* **How has the COVID-19 pandemic impacted the population of businesses in Los Angeles?** 
* **On a deeper level, how do power dynamics of capital and access determine which businesses can stay afloat amidst these difficult realities?**

## Why This Research Matters
This research is important to us because we want to better understand the correlation between the pandemic and the economy by tracing the spread of the virus and the number of active businesses. Data showing infected cases, deaths, and closed businesses not only serve as the material condition for our research but ultimately contextualize human experiences and shows that this pandemic has had big impacts on our health as well as the way we financially sustain ourselves. By investigating this topic, we can provide insights to business owners and entrepreneurs who may want to work in LA during a pandemic.

## Spatial Scope
Our spatial scope is centered in Los Angeles, and we will segment active businesses by different zip codes (e.g., Culver City vs Koreatown) to compare business populations in more affluent areas to lower-income ones. As a result, space and time are essential concepts to our project because we get to contextualize the total number of COVID-19 cases to active businesses over the course of the pandemic.

## Data Sets
The **Listing of Active Businesses** data set is generated by the Los Angeles Office of Finance and shows which businesses are currently operating. The dataset is segmented into different columns, such as street address, zip codes, council district, NAICS, location coordinates etc.

**Source**: https://data.lacity.org/Administration-Finance/Listing-of-Active-Businesses/6rrh-rzua/data

The **COVID-19 Data Repository by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE) at Johns Hopkins University** contains multiple data sources (e.g., WHO, LA Times, LA Public Health, etc.) which provide COVID-19 information, such as active cases, deaths, state, county, etc. For our project, we will focus on COVID-19 data that's specific to the LA area. To that end, space and time are essential here too because they show the number of COVID 19-related cases and deaths in the last year.

**Source(s)**: 
* https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19 (Johns Hopkins)
  * https://github.com/datadesk/california-coronavirus-data (LA Times)
  * http://publichealth.lacounty.gov/media/coronavirus/ (LA Public Health)
  

## Analysis Scope and Visualizations
Our scope for our analysis revolves around observing and understanding how COVID-19 has impacted the business sector. From this, we can analyze what sort of businesses have popped up and what businesses have shut down as a result of the pandemic. Our data provides us with the opportunity to map the rise and fall of businesses in the form of a time-lapse visualization--each business can be represented as a small dot. To add another layer of complexity, we can also heat map the confirmed COVID-19 cases by county on the same map. 

**note to hen:** RQ: "In a deeper level, how do power dynamics of capital and access determine which businesses can stay afloat amidst these difficult realities?" This is really good :D but I having trouble trying to think of a visualization :o can u think of any? If not we can try to just talkj about it in our project. 

