Create a markdown page (optionally, you may choose to upload a PDF), which will be your group's project proposal. Make sure to include the following:

- An introduction of your research question
- An explanation of why it is important to you, why it matters to others, and what is at stake
- A description of the spatial scope (e.g. Boyle Heights or Hong Kong), and why space and/or time matters for your project
- A preliminary but definitive description of data sources (at least two) that you will use
- Include datasource with links
- A scope that explains the intended analysis and resulting visualizations for your project
- A concluding paragraph of what insights you expect to gain from your research

## Research Question
This past year has proven incredibly difficult and unrehearsed, as we continue this drawn-out battle against the COVID-19 pandemic. Not only did we see dramatic changes set upon the workforce (eg massive layoffs and economic downturn), but we also saw communities and individuals heavily impacted this pandemic--with many reports regarding issues accessing to healthcare, food, and social resources. Additionally, a discussion surrounding which types of businesses should be prioritized arose, as we are all asking the question, "What's essential and non-essential?" Taking this all together, we became curious about how the conditions of a community (eg, race, income, education, etc) and the distribution/distance to "essential" businesses can shape the respective quality of life.

As a result we propose the following research questions:
* How has the COVID-19 pandemic impacted businesses in the LA area, particulary those deemed essential?
* Does the count and distrubtion of essential businesses across the LA area bear serious impact on the health of these communities (as measured by HPI)? In other words, does having essential businesses (or lack thereof) in your area affect the conditons of your community?

## Why This Research Matters
This research matters because COVID-19 has likely shifted business dynamics for the past year, it would be interesting to observe how the business landscape of Los Angeles has transformed. That said, we are paying extra attention on what we have gathered as essential businesses because they not only play a critical role in mitigating the virus (eg medical and testing centers, ambulances, and hospitals) but also provide immediate relief and resources to communities (eg, grocery stores, social work, real estate). By examining a communities (spatial) relation to these essential businesses while simultaneously factoring pre-exisiting community conditions, we can get a more holistic yet nuanced understanding of the quality of life in these areas.

## Spatial & Temporal Scope
Up to the midterm, our spatial scope is set to the entire Los Angeles area. Our project timeline as it pertains to our businesses dataset runs until the end of 2020. Space and time are essential concepts to our project because we are contextualizing the fluctuations of businesses over time as well as the distribution of businesses across the LA area. When we eventually incorporate HPI (Healthy Place Index) data into our research, we will attempt to segment different pocket of LA and examine their HPI scores.

## Data Sets

The **Healthy Places Index (HPI)** data set is generated by the Public Health Alliance of Southern California and shows an HPI score that encompasses multiple factors (economic, social, education, transportation, neighborhood, housing, clean environment, and healthcare). This dataset contains over a hundred columns that describe other demographics for each tract.

**Source**: https://healthyplacesindex.org/data-reports/

The **Listing of Active Businesses** data set is generated by the Los Angeles Office of Finance and shows which businesses are currently operating. The dataset is segmented into different columns, such as street address, zip codes, council district, NAICS, location coordinates etc.

**Source**: https://data.lacity.org/Administration-Finance/Listing-of-Active-Businesses/6rrh-rzua/data

The **Listing of Closed Businesses** data set is generated by the Los Angeles Office of Finance and shows which business are no longer operating. This data set contains identical columns as the Active Business counterpart. 

**Source**: https://data.lacity.org/Administration-Finance/All-Closed-Businesses/tkh9-tssh


## Analysis Scope and Visualizations
Our analysis will focus on how the business landscape has shifted across LA over the years particularly over 2020, and how the count/distrubtion of businesses deemed essential may affect a community's HPI. To contextualize the fluctuactions in businesses, we track the the counts of active and closed businesses over time via time charts. We further examine the businesses as categorized by NAICS codes to see which industries are dominating the job scene and which aren't. This also creates a threshold for us to look at different "essential businesses" and examine their counts.

We will be creating an interactive map that will map only active businesses in LA up until 12/31/2020. This map can be filtered by a particular essential business by clicking on the legend. Each of our selected essential businesses is captured by their NAICS code (North American Industry Classification System). Our purpose in making this map is to see how the essential businesses are spread out across Los Angeles.

Additionally, we will create a static map of Los Angeles that maps the HPI of each community by tract. With this visualization, we can see where communities of low HPI are clustered and we can analyze why that is.


## Conclusion
All in all, we hope to better understand the fluctuations of LA businesses over time, particularly within the past year. Through our graphs and spatial visualizations, we can see the distribution of businesses across the LA area as well as any patterns of clustering specific zones. By focusing critically on essential businesses and the distance it takes for people from different cities to reach them, we can draw meaningful insights regarding how access to these essential businesses (or lack thereof) can impact the conditions and quality of life of cities. Furthermore, we can understand if there are any preexisting conditions that affect an individual community's HPI by investigating communities on a smaller scale.
